**Blindnet SDK** consists of **client-side** and **server-side** libraries for different languages and platforms.

**Server-side SDK** is used mainly for user authentication in blindnet by providing the api to generate the [authentication tokens](./managing_users_access.md#creating_user_tokens){target=_blank}. Additionally, you can use it to [delete users](./managing_users_access.md#deleting_users){target=_blank} and [encryption keys](./managing_users_access.md#deleting_encrypted_data_keys){target=_blank} of your application.

**Client-side SDK** is used for [encryption](./encrypt.md){target=_blank} and [decryption](./decrypt.md){target=_blank} of the data shared between users of your application. Other functionalities are e.g. [sharing](./managing_users_access.md#giving_access_to_other_users){target=_blank} the encrypted data with other users.

In order to integrate blindnet to your application:

1. You need to integrate both **client-side** and **server-side SDKs**.
1. You need a way to authenticate the users in your application. Users in blindnet are identified by a unique identifier which is [generated](./managing_users_access.md#creating_user_tokens){target=_blank} on your side. User’s unique identifier is a part of the authentication token.
1. You need to maintain the [authenticated sessions](../other/glossary.md#session){target=_blank} with blindnet on the client-side for every user using the blindnet api. A session is identified by an [authentication token](./managing_users_access.md#creating_user_tokens){target=_blank} generated by the **server-side SDK** and passed to the **client-side**. Tokens have an expiry time so make sure to generate new ones after they expire.
